The board is made up of 64 boxes alternating in color, white and dark, and must be positioned with the last box at the bottom right in black.
Each player has at the beginning 12 pieces, of a different color from those of the opponent (white or black), placed on the first three rows of dark squares 
placed on their side of the board. Black occupies the squares from no. 1 to n. 12, white those from n. 21 to no. 32. The choice of color among the players is done by drawing lots.

Always start playing white.

The pawn always moves diagonally across the dark squares one square at a time and only forward. When a pawn reaches one of the squares of the last row it is promoted, 
it becomes queen and must be marked with the overlap of another pawn taken from those not in play.

Each pawn can eat those opponents that are forward, on the diagonal square next to their own and that have the next free square. After the catch, if they meet diagonally 
other pawns with the next free square, they must continue to eat without removing the hand from the pawn itself. In this case the socket is called multiple. 
The pieces taken must be removed from the board.

The queen also moves one square at a time, always diagonally, in all possible directions, eating both the pieces and the opposing queen.
In case of taking it is mandatory to eat the pieces. The ancient rule of the "breath", that is to capture the opponent's piece which, despite having the right, 
by distraction or by choice had not eaten, was abolished by the Dame Federation in 1934.

Having more possibilities of taking the following priorities must be respected in order:
it is mandatory to eat where there are more pieces;

if the number of pieces to be taken is equal, between pawn and checker one is obliged to eat the checker; moreover, if you can choose between eating as a checker or a pawn, 
it is mandatory to eat with the checker;

the lady chooses the outlet where more ladies are eaten;

other things being equal, you eat where you first meet the opponent's checkers.

"Piece touched = Piece moved": the player who, in his turn to play, touches one of his pieces on the board is obliged to move it.
If you want to fix a badly placed piece on the board you must first warn the opponent by declaring "accommodating" or "acconcio" and wait for the opponent's consent.

You win by abandoning the opponent, who is in obvious difficulty, or when you capture or block all the opponent's pieces.

There is a tie in a situation of evident final balance by agreement of the players or by decision of the referee following the count of 40 moves requested by one of the two players. 
The count of the moves resets and restarts every time one of the two players moves a checker or makes a trick.